From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists and Scott
Hanselman. Mrs. Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 83. Recorded live
Monday, September 5th, 2011. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Paul's Novell about launching
his own ISV. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
I thought of it last
week. We did it last
week. Startup series. This is
startup series. Number two, when
I'm talking with Paul's devel
recently moved from Australia to
London. How are you, sir?
I'm good. Thanks Scott. Thanks
for having me. You did
it. You started your own
company. That's technically I've started
a company. We're not really
a trading at the moment,
but there's a product and
hopefully it'll, it'll go on
salivary sane. So is it
a big deal to start
a company anymore? I mean,
I know I did a
show with a shaker cake
awhile back on a micro
ISV. It seems like that's
the hip new thing to
do. You start a tiny,
tiny company and you have
no support department. It's just
all in the cloud. That's
right. Yeah. It's, it's, it's
been surprisingly easy so far.
I guess I'm, I'm probably
ignorance of how complicated it
actually is. And so I'm
just kind of doing one
step at a time. And
so far it's actually been
quite easy. A lot of
the things in Australia, at
least you can, you can
register online to get set
up and, and very similar
in the UK where I
am now. So you're, you're
an Australian citizen, but you're
in London working. Did you
give any thought to that
or are you just doing
all of this as an
Australian? So actually I'm contracting
here in the UK for
an investment bank and using
that same business to develop
a product. So it's, it's
a, it's a UK based
company. Okay. So you, how
do you start this? You
mean you come up with
a name for your company
and then what what's involved.
I guess you come up
with the name, you, you
check that it's available in
this case. It's based on
my last name. So it
wasn't too hard to find
something and then you register
it online and there's a
lot of service providers. That'll,
that'll do that at that
point. You've got a company
for contracting. There are a
few extra things to do,
like around the insurance, et
cetera. But generally I think
it took maybe a couple
of days to get the
whole thing, legally set up
as an entity. Some things
like setting up bank accounts.
So in the UK, at
least a lot more difficult,
but yeah, that's, that's really
all there is to it.
So definitely something that you
should do as an entity,
you should make this like
an LLC or a corporation.
And it doesn't sound like
the kind of thing you'd
want to attach your name
to and just say, Hey,
I've got a PayPal starts
sending me cash. Yeah. Bob
Walsh has a good book,
micro ISV from vision to
reality. And he kind of
talks about the different company
structures that are about a
company sole trader, that kind
of thing. But it seems
to be a lot of
tax advantages to doing it
through a company. And I
guess I needed a company
to contract through. So it
kind of kills two birds
with one stone. So what
is, what was your checklist
of things you needed to
do once you got your
paperwork and your checks and
you made your name? There's
the usual stuff that I
think folks who are listening
to the show, obviously know
how to do registered domain
set up things, but there's
a lot of stuff like
discussion boards and hosting and,
and who does your email
and where your source code
and your tracking and continuous
integration, all these things. How
do you make those decisions
and what did you end
up going with? Yeah, I'd
like to say it was
a long and, and well
thought out process. It's, it's
kind of just been making
it up as I go
along. I started with, you
did an interview with Leon
Bambrick from Australia. Yeah, that's
right about his micro eyes
for you. And he had
a list of about 25
things. So I kind of
started from there. So you're
getting domains, there's some of
the obvious things, my email
is hosted through Google apps,
discussion boards are through tender.
And a lot of this
is actually just looking at
products that I admire, like
agile as in and at
Harbor and seeing, I guess
how they're doing things and
the way they interact with
their customers. And it turns
out those are quite good
services. So is that the
way you thought of it?
You said, let me look
at some of the smaller
companies that I respect and
see what they're using for
their discussion boards or what
they're using for their hosting.
Yeah, That's right. I figure
if I liked the company
and other people do, then
they must be doing something
right. And I guess at
this stage, it's, you kind
of want to just focus
on building a product. So
if you can offload a
lot of the things like
running discussion boards and email
hosting and all of those
things, then, you know, that's,
that's a really good thing
to do. So email hosting
and stuff like that is
obvious. It's either Google apps
or office three 65, it's
all on the cloud. There's
no person to manage the
exchange server. It's just, it's,
it's Google apps and it's
out there and it's handled
that's, that's a no brainer,
but things like source code
hosting, you could have done
many different things. You could
have done, you know, private
Bitbucket repository, but you went
with one called killed. I
think that's Joel Spolsky's company.
Yeah, That's right. I initially
started with Bitbucket, but with,
with Bitbucket because of the
focus on social coding, which
is really nice, you tend
to have, you know, it's,
it's Paul Stovall slash a
project. And I guess for
something that I'm hoping is
going to be a longterm
business, I want it to
be more about, I guess,
the company or the product
first. So using kiln I
guess, was a nicer for
that. And it's free, I
believe for, for one user.
So that works perfect for
me. And is there any
integration with issue tracking or
bugs and count? Cause I
know that if it's, if
it's Joel Spolsky, then it's
probably got something with bugs
or one of his bug
tracking softwares. Yeah. When you,
when you get a kill
in the County, you also
get a fog bugs account.
I don't actually use it.
I'm using agiles in from
Nitin, Nikki Cari, I guess
for me, I have a
very short list of features
I'd like to add and
I don't need a whole
lot of detail about them.
And I use the discussion
boards for, I guess, any
kind of bug reports. So
agile is ends, I guess,
a bit simpler and I
don't really miss having any
integration. I think it's sometimes
a bit overrated. So when
you get these different tools
working together, I mean, task
tracking is agile Zen source
code with  I assume
you have continuous integration. Yes.
So I guess in the
days of the cloud, I'm,
I'm perhaps going a bit
backwards. So I ended up
just paying to put a
dedicated server in a data
center and I'm running my
own virtual cloud, I guess,
on top of that. And
so part of that is
a, is a CIA server
using team city. Hmm. And
why did you choose to
do that when there's so
many hosted choices? I mean,
is there something that we
should know as, as listeners
who are trying to learn
from you or is this
just a, you're not bought
into the cloud yet? I
guess the two main advantages
of, of cloud that you
see discussed a lot, the
first is this kind of
commoditization of hardware. So there's
supposed to be a lot
of cost savings. And the
other part is just the
on demand scale out. It's
a lot easier to, to
add lots of servers, being
able to add a lot
of servers for me for
kind of private infrastructure stuff,
I guess isn't that important,
but costs are at this
point. So when you sit
down and do the math
to get, for example, on,
on a zoo to, to
get three machines that you
can remote desktop intimate and
do stuff with, you're probably
looking at about an Australian
dollars, it's about say $90
per machine, maybe about 50,
50 British pounds, whereas to
get a dedicated server with
say 32 gigs of Ram,
at least here in Europe
is quite cheap. And so
for me, it worked out
easy just to, to rent
a server and then put
my own virtual hosting on
top of that. Interesting. So
are you running like hyper
V on that, and then
you have virtual servers because
one of the things that
I think could I would
do if I were going
to start my own company
is I would make sure
that I had snapshots and
the ability to undo things
and using either hyper V
or some kind of virtualization
service would be, but I
would want to do. Yeah,
absolutely. So I'm using VMware
ESX, Y which is just
a bare metal hypervisor. And
then on top of that,
there are about eight different
virtual machines And you can
remote into the hypervisor part
of things and tell it
what to do. Yeah. There's
kind of a remote administration
console that you use to
set up virtual machines, take
snapshots, all of those things.
And then I can remote
desktop into all the machines
on top of that. Interesting.
Interesting. Do you, had you
looked at any of the
virtualization as a service type
services? Like I know that
there's vast net V a
S N E T, which
is literally all they do
is virtualization as a service.
And then you just rent
by the hour of virtual
machine. Interesting. No, I hadn't
looked at that. I guess
the main providers I looked
at were Amazon  Azure
and in Australia, there's a
company called nine-fold who are
also a cloud provider, but
just doing the math for
the costs of some of
those, it just turned out
a bit cheaper to get
a server. So this is
interesting though, you, you, you
admit to happily doing the
math, you actually did this
cause I'm not very good
at that myself. And I
tend to just go with
my gut, but it sounds
like you actually did some
analysis here and thought about
what the bottom line was
going to be. Yeah. If
you look at, say the,
the Amazon easy to pricing
pages to get a virtual
machine with, I'm not sure
if it's five, 12 or
712 Meg, and they'll kind
of give you hourly pricing,
but when you imagine that
there's about if you want
your servers running all the
time, there's about 720 hours
in a month. It pretty
quickly adds up. Yeah. Interesting.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
The idea with like with
Azure or one of these
kinds of things that's in
the cloud. If they're going
to start charging you a
hundred bucks a month, it
doesn't take more than a
year before you buy a
machine with the money that
you'd be spending in the
cloud. Yeah, Exactly. The benefit
of it of course, is
that if you did need
to suddenly add five extra
services to cope with, with
demand to do that with
a dedicated server, I'd probably
be looking at, you know,
a couple of weeks to
provision that. So I, I
do see using the cloud
as a way to, if
I need to kind of
rapidly scale something up and
that'd be a nice problem
to have, then I would
look at the cloud, but
I guess for the long
term, it just seems a
bit cheaper this way. Okay.
So talk to me about
the business and what you're
selling and we'll, and then
we'll get back to the
cloud because I think that
the cloud has a place
to play within, within your
business. So what, what's your
product? So the product is
octopus and it's an automated
deployment solution for corporate environments.
So I think of it
as a bit like a
team city meets at parlor
meets new get, but within
your enterprise. Okay. So it's,
it's a deployment system, so
that I have my source
code already. I assume that
I'm using something, whether it
be TFS or HD or
subversion, I'm a company. And
let's say that I've got
I'm agile and I've got
Kanban boards. And I think
I'm really awesome. Except once
a week, some guy opens
up two windows and explore
and then drags a folder
from one machine to another.
And that's our deployment. Yep.
Right. That's where I had
Fred is our deployment system.
That's right. Is that where
you come in? Yeah. So,
so octopus, I guess, takes
over Fred's job or makes
Fred's job a bit easier.
So No, because he was
opening to explore windows That's
right. So, so you would
check code into your source
control system, have your build
service, say team build or
team city, take that code
and package it up into
a new get file. And
then the job of octopus
is to take that, that
new get package and figure
out how to get it
onto all of the machines
you plan to deploy to.
And octopus has this very
strong understanding of test environments,
staging environments, and production environments.
Interesting. So there's two interesting
things there that I just
caught first, the build server
makes a new get file.
So you're using a new
get file, which is just
a zip file with a
manifest you're using new get
as the, the, the, the,
the unit, the package that
is the build artifacts. That's
right. Yeah. So if you,
if you think about automated
deployment, there's, there's kind of
four parts to it. So
there's, what do you want
to deploy? So that's the
package or the artifact. There's
how you get it to
that machine that you actually
want to put it on.
There's the configuration of it.
And then it's the installation.
And, you know, back when,
when Linux took over the
world and we used to,
you know, you'd run one
command to download a package,
the next one to unzip
it, the next one to
make it the next one
to install it. It's, it's
really those same four things
in any automated deployment solution.
So new get works really
well as a packaging format
for doing that. Well, Y
you know, I know that
new gets, you know, the
hot thing that people are
talking about. And I, I'm
certainly trying my best to
make people talk about it,
but ultimately though it is
just a zip file with
some additional metadata. Why new
get, are you trying to
shove in, you know, context
and meta information into a
format that doesn't necessarily wasn't
designed for that? Yeah. So
there's two reasons for using
new gear. One is a
technical reason, really. I guess
if we think about what
some of the alternatives would
be, you've got things like
MSIs Emma's deploy packages, or
just creating your own zip
files. The benefit of new
get is that manifest has
a lot of really rich
information about versioning, because when
you're, when you're deploying, especially
if you look back over
the history of what you've
deployed, it's really important to
know exactly what version of
your software was deployed at
what point in time. And
that's something you definitely don't
get when Fred has his
two Explorer windows open. Exactly.
So, so that manifest information
is, is really rich. The
other part, the technical part
of, of new get is
the data feeds. So it
makes it very easy for
something like octopus to query
and find out what versions
of your software are available.
And then to deploy those,
which if you're just using
site MSIs or web deploy
packages, you'd have to have
some way of kind of
queering them and gathering them
together. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team. Guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse.
It's an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally,
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Tellerik. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes. If
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us.
I have experienced in doing
automated distributed deployments. I used
to work at a bank
and we developed a system
that used PowerShell, and this
was kind of before I
must deploy, it was really
like a mature enough to
use, and it was not
really well understood. And we
basically, what we did is
we had the build artifact
pop out of the build
server. We then checked the
build artifact into another subversion.
We had a subversion source
control system that represented what,
what an idealized system would
look like. We checked it
in and we, we labeled
it. So that was our
versioning metadata. We would label
it. Then we would send
information to a service that
was running on when a
one of many, many boxes.
There might be 20 boxes
and they all had this
service and that service would
then go and do a
get from subversion at that
label and then bring the
stuff down. So we would,
it would kind of fan
out and then everyone would
do a big get. And
they would basically check out
from source control this folder,
but then the issue of
like comm objects and registration
and permissions and ankles and
all that kind of stuff
came along. How does your
solution solve those kinds of
Harrier problems? I mean, getting
the files from point a
to point B is only
step zero. Yeah. So I
guess octopus works in fairly
similar way. So the, the
metadata in the version in
comes just from having the
new, you get packages, octopus
picks those up and pushes
it out to agents that
run on all of the
machines that you're planning to
deploy to. It's more of
a push base deployment model,
because one of the scenarios
I wanted to enable with
octopus was not just deploying
two machines that are on
your corporate active directory domain.
But if you have say
a data center in another
part of the city at
the moment, we often do
that just using FTP or
finding some other way of
getting the files onto there.
So we want to be
able to kind of extend
it, perhaps even out onto
the cloud. So that's the
kind of getting files they're
dealing with. Things like ICLs
component registrations. A lot of
that is still done using
PowerShell. The thing that octopus
saves you from is figuring
out how to run the
PowerShell scripts remotely. So you
probably configured a PowerShell remoting
through when RM it's may.
I'm just not smart enough,
but I found it very,
very difficult. Yeah. It's known
to be a little bit
Baroque in, in my case,
we had to do this
before PowerShell remoting existed. So
I ended up making a
PowerShell remoting service of my
own hosting, the PowerShell run
space, and then doing that
work this, you know, that
way, or are you sending
the new, get files over
to the deployment, tentacles, the
nodes at the end of
the other side, and then
having the PowerShell run there?
Yes. And the agents are
called tentacles and that's, that's
kind of where the octopus
comes in. The octopus controls,
the tentacles octopus will go
to new, get and get
the package. And then it
will work out which tentacles
need that package. And it
will push them out through
a WCF call. And that
call is secured through a
couple of X 509 certificates.
So there's kind of a
pretty strong security aspect of
this. So that package gets
uploaded to the 10th school.
And then the 10th school
runs the installation all locally.
So it will unzip the
package, it'll replace web config
values. There's a whole bunch
of conventions that get run
calling PowerShell scripts, configuring IIS
websites, and that's kind of
the deployment done. So it's
pretty much the same service.
Yeah. Interesting. Now of course,
I'm comparing this with the
one thing I know, which
is the system that I
built a long time ago,
but I'm not in any
way trying to imply that
my seven year old or
eight year old, you know,
system of a MacGyver rubber
bands and paper clips is
comparable to an actual product,
but I'm just going to
use it as an example,
because we were using source
control. We could tell if
someone had modified something on
a machine, we had a
number of situations in large
banks where, you know, machine
number 17 of 20 is
acting weird. And we could
actually go into explore on
that machine and look and
see, Oh, well that's changed
because someone's modified this. I
can compare it to the
source up in the sky.
Does that the responsibility you
think of a deployment system
to, to know that one
of the machines is no
longer in line and then
get them back into line.
And can you do that?
Yeah. I mean, it is
kind of a social problem
in the sense that you
kind of hope that your
obvious people won't do that.
But realistically, I don't think
there's a large company in
the world that doesn't have
a copy of copy of
web dot config somewhere. But
so there is one aspect
of that when the package
is uploaded, because new get
packages, they have like a,
a signature. So we can
tell that it hasn't been
modified before it got installed,
but after it's installed, it
would be a really nice
feature in octopus to be
able to say, well, you
know, when we installed everything,
here's the files that were
there and what they have
to and have they changed.
And that's hopefully something that'll,
that'll come in version two.
Okay. So you you're doing
just like nougat does when
you're dealing with this at
a project level, you're keeping
that new, get zip file
around so that you have
a comparison. You have an
internal version control. You can
tell that the one I
is the one that's still
on disk That's right. Yeah.
Yeah. That's clever. That's clever.
Do you think this is
going to confuse people because
I've spent a lot of
time trying to explain that
new get's not for installing
installing software, but it sounds
like the people have spoken
and they are going to
be installing software with new
games. Yeah, I guess so
the other reason for choosing
new get is that it's
a format that's familiar to
developers. So if you compare
it to MSIs, for example,
I know a lot of
people that use Wix, I've
never met anyone that enjoys
using weeks and for creating
MSIs. And that's not really
a reflection of weeks. I
think weeks does the best
job it can, but MSI
is just very complicated. Whereas
new get packages, developers are
becoming intimately familiar with them.
You know, every time we,
I love it, actually, when
I create a new project,
you know, I do file
new project. I right. Click
and I say, add library,
package reference. And then I
kind of go into the
shopping spree of, you know,
what packages are available that
I could use that would
be, you know, fun and
interesting. So developers, I think
they're really liking new gear
and it is a very
simple file format. It's very
convention based. And I think
that works very well for
deployments as well. So let's
why don't you walk me
through how that would work?
Let's say that I like,
for example, we just updated
nerd dinner to version three,
we put in razor and
all this kind of fancy
stuff, and I've got a
VM that's up in the
cloud somewhere right now. I
right. Click and I say
publish, but I do it
from visual studio. I could
probably type EMIS deploy from
the command line. We have
continuous integration at team city.
We have a cloud based
continuous integration server. That team
city's been kind enough to
let us use it code
better. How would I change
my deployment? And what would
something like octopus add to
that experience? So you would,
you would check in the
changes that you've made TeamCity
would build that source code,
run the tests, those things
out of that, you would
get a new get package
that says this is version
one dot five of Nerdina.
Okay. But I don't do
that now. I don't make
a new get package as
a build artifact right now.
I just have a bin
folder. Yeah. So you would
need to create the new
get package. That's actually fairly
easy because if you have
the negate command line, you
get dot DXC. It's fairly
easy just to take a
folder and turn that into
a package. One of the
things I'd like to be
able to do is just
because TeamCity does provide sort
of RSS feeds about the
artifacts that it has to
be able to kind of
implicitly create an, you get
packaged for you straight out
of team city. They didn't
the announced, I mean, I've
been working with them about
new gets support, and I
know that they support pulling
new, get packages in. Do
they support making them know
and their new version? Not
that I've seen, although I
know you did a, a
blog post about this a
little while ago for, I
wasn't sure if it was
for publishing you get packages
or, Well, they'll, they'll, they'll
bring nugget packages down. They'll
restore them from a packages
dot config. If you don't
already have them there, we'll
have to check. I'm sure
that we'll find out is
a second that this is
a, this podcast is over
that they either do, or
they don't, but it like
they're, they're bought in on
new get team city is
bought in on new gets.
So it sounds like having
a build artifact where I
could just flip a switch
and say, Oh, by the
way, after this is built,
make me a new get
package out of it would
be easy, but it sounds
like it's just a batch
file. New get pack food,
CS, project, nerd, dinner dot
CS project. Yeah, that's right.
So you're, you're in my
case, my team city configuration,
it runs an EMIS build
file. And the last line
of that is just a
call to execute and you
get DXE, here's the folder,
here's the manifest and output
Package. Okay. So the package
pops out, but let's say
for my nerd dinner application,
I need right. Access to
the logs folder. So it's
not just a straight website.
I need a special right.
Access for my, whatever my
user that I'm running is.
And that's a curve ball
that I'm throwing at you.
What do I do then?
Yeah. So in that case,
if you imagine building a
new get package for, let's
say a third party component
that you were producing, that
you wanted to use for
me within visual studio, the
way you would do those
kind of custom, one off
things in naked is you
would create a, an installed
at PS one file. So
in octopus, it works in
a very similar convention. So
the script that, that grants,
those permissions, you would create
a PowerShell script. You would
call that deployed up PS
one. And you would just
put that somewhere inside your
new gear package. And when
octopus unzips, it it'll inspect
the package. And if it
finds that that file, it'll
run it as the local
system. Okay. So with new
get today, we have
installed and uninstalled at PS
one. And these are conventions
that are specific to when
a library is used in
a project. So you're inventing
your own convention. So deploy.ps.
One is what would happen
when the deployment occurs. And
at that point I could
call cackles from the command
line and set the echo,
however, Absolutely. Yep. And the
thing that it saves you
from doing is figuring out
how to run that script
remotely because it's being run
on the local machine. Okay.
What about IIS things, making
sites and the kind of
usual IIS stuff that I
wanted that I want to
do. A lot of that
can be in the web
dot config now in the
system dot web server area,
but still I might want
to do something to IIS
or register a comm object.
Yeah. I'd really love some
way of, because I, as
configuration is very complicated and
I would love some way
of by convention, figuring out
that, you know, that's a
dinette for project and you
want to, in this virtual
directory, all of those kind
of strange things at the
moment, the way it works
is you would, when you
first set up that server,
you would remote desktop in,
as you do to set
up all the other things,
you would install iOS and
you would create a website
with a name that matches
the name of your package.
So you might have an
IRS website called Nerdina or
no dinner dot web, right?
When octopus unpacks your package,
it'll find a web dot
conflict file. And it'll make
this assumption that well, because
that's a web config, this
must be a website. So
can I find a website
in IAS that has the
same name? And if I
can update the home directory
to point to where I
just unzipped this package. So
you kind of do the
one off fires configuration at
the start, but octopus will,
I guess, continue to update
that configuration as you deploy
new versions. I see. So
this is kind of a
convention over configuration that we're
seeing so much of lately.
We heard about it first
in Ruby, on rails a
number of years ago. And
now the idea of letting
the software do the right
thing based on convention is
we're seeing it everywhere now.
Yeah, that's right. I think
my past experiences with automated
deployment is they, there tends
to be a lot of
scripting involved and they, they
tend to be very, very
ad hoc and every project
is different. So I might
have two different teams in
my company, both working on
SPI net solutions. They're both
using Jacory. They're both using
razor. There's a lot of
those things that they would
just do because it's the
easy way to go. You
know, that whole pit of
success thing. But when it
comes to deployment automation, there's
no kind of obvious solutions.
So one of them might
involve a, a document that
someone has to read to
manually deploy. The other might
have a whole set of
scripts, but using these conventions,
it kind of just saves
you from having to reinvent
that wheel all the time.
If so, another convention in
octopus for example, is a,
and this is inspired from
our Harbor. Imagine that you
are deploying to some codes
to your test environment and
then to a production environment.
So the website that you're
deploying probably has a SQL
server database behind it. And
so in your conflict file,
you would have the connection
string setting pointing to the
database that you want. So
with octopus through the, because
octopus comes with this, a
web console for setting up
your deployments, you can define
a variable and say, well,
the connection string for staging
is this Valley. And the
connection string for production is
this value and octopus. When
it unzips your package, it'll
look at your web config.
And if it finds a
connection string that matches a
variable that you've defined, it'll
just replace the value for
you. So you don't have
to write all those X
path replacement expressions. I see.
So you're, you're, you're making
the deployment environment aware. We,
I had had this conversation
with a guy internally at
Microsoft recently, you know, about
web config transforms like there's
web dot, web dot, debug
dot config, and web dot
release dot config. And those
things run at publish time,
but they're, those are build
variables, like build and release,
debug and release rather that
are, that are showing up
in the names rather than
things like dev staging and
test. Yep. So you're kind
of making environment a first
class citizen. Absolutely. So octopus
also does web conflict transforms
if there's a web, if
there's a conflict transformed called
web dot release or, or
app dot release. So this
will work with windows services
as well. It will, it
will run that. It'll also
run. If you have, if
your environment is called staging
and production, if it finds
a web dot staging dot
config, and it happens to
deploying into staging, it'll run
that file as well. But
generally you'd run the web
contract transforms as part of
building the package. And you'd
just be replacing some configuration
values as part of your
deployment. But octopus definitely has
this understanding of environments and
machines. So a lot of
deployments was kind of focused
on how do I deploy
one package to one machine,
right? Octopus is all about
how do I deploy potentially
multiple packages in a certain
order to a lot of
different machines. The underlying question
underneath my question was that
I've already got an investment
in a web dot, you
know, the debug dot config.
I've done my work in
the XML deployment transformation language,
the kind of metadata language
that I've, you know, I
don't want to go and
write XSLT, or I don't
want to go and use
your, you know, the octopus
token replacement system. It sounds
like you're, you're not going
to necessarily take away the
things that I like about
something like Emma's deploy and
force me to use your
thing I can pick and
choose That's. Right. Yeah. I
actually would really like to
embrace a lot of the
defaults. So if I'm working
on a project and I
inherit and I spit on
it solution, I would expect
that any settings are going
to be in the app
setting section. And I would
expect the connection strings are
in connection strings. And so
octopus has no client libraries.
There's no special things that
you have to do to
make octopus happy. Hopefully it's
just following the default conventions
that work with.net When I'm
just curious of a couple
of things. And I'm just
asking, cause I have intimate
knowledge of these other, other
products. Not because I necessarily
have an opinion one way
or the other. I'm still
thinking about it. But you
know, there are things that
you can already do today
and have been able to
do an IAS, like create
a package, a web platform,
installer uses this. I can
set up something in, in
IAS. I can set up
a website. I can right
click on it. I can
say export as application and
I'll get a zip file
that has a manifest. And
it has parameters dot XML
that already exists. And it's
a very, very rich, albeit
slightly complicated way to do
things. And then I can
go and import that package
or deploy it with EMIS
deploy. Why not embrace that
IIS specific, very rich metadata
then invent a new thing
in, in new get. So
I do actually have plans,
hopefully just after version one
of octopus comes out to
also be able to work
with those packages. So you
would produce using the, the
public option in visual studio
or through calling Emma's deployed
as part of your build.
You might produce an EMIS
deploy package and then just
quickly wrap it up in
a new get package to
get all that rich versioning
metadata, and then octopus. Because
if you have a, you
know, when you're trying to
invoke that Emma's deploy c'mon
line to pass in the
parameters, it's a little bit,
you got to spend a
bit of time kind of
reading the documentation to get
that right. I think you're
being extra nice. It's a
crazy command line. It's one
of those command lines. It's
like writing a regular expression,
but once you get it
to work, just don't move.
Cause it works. Exactly. Exactly.
So octopus will hopefully at
take care of invoking ms.
Deploy over your deployment package.
So if you do need
to do some really crazy
things with ISA that's, that's
one option. The other option
is just using PowerShell. You
can use the Microsoft web
automation, API APIs, and you
can just kind of pull
those into PowerShell and then,
you know, make changes to
websites, set up app domains,
that kind of stuff. So
things like the web farm
framework. I mean, I mean,
I know I might be,
so I might sound like
a Microsoft shill in the
sense of I'm, I'm kind
of pimping our other other
features, but this is all
free stuff that already exists.
I'm not trying to like
push people towards it as
I am trying to let
people know that the things
already exist, I think IIS
and the IIS modules and
the things around IAS are,
I've said this before publicly
are ridiculously powerful and just
poorly documented, you know? And
I hope the future versions
aren't, but the AIS tools
by far are some of
the most powerful tools in
the entire web stack. And
there are some of the
least, well-documented like the web
form framework and they must
deploy itself. I mean, it's
crazy if you get it
working, but if you can't
get it working, you just
give up. Yeah. That's that's
right. I guess the other
area where that lets you
down is it's not all
often when you're building a
website, you're not just building
a website, there's also perhaps
set of windows services that
you need to be able
to run in the background.
There's changes to a database
that you need to make
all of those things. So
using a very simple packaging
format, like new get, I
think it kind of, it
makes it a little bit
more consistent because the way
you're deploying a windows services,
the same way that you're
deploying a website, if you
can kind of follow some
of these conventions. Okay, cool.
And then just kind of
in closing, how do you
plan on selling this? So
I guess my, my goal
is to be able to
walk into less businesses that
have copy of copy of
web config. So I'd really
like to just see people
doing more automated deployment. And
so octopus is free for
the first project. So you
can deploy to as many
machines as you like as
many environments as you like
for one project, which might
be a website, a website
services, database, all those things.
Hopefully by the time you're
around to doing a second
project, you'll be willing to
pay for it. At that
point, it'll be around about
700 pounds, which may seem
like a lot. But when
you think about how much
time you actually spent just
writing PowerShell scripts and configuring
when RM it's, it's probably
a few days worth of
work. So hopefully the time
savings will make up for
it. Well, like I said,
if it's free for one
project, so I could download
this now and try to
get this working with no
dinner, no problem. Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely. Very cool. And this
is an octopus deploy.com and
I guess, well, it's in
beta, it'll be free. That's
right. Yep. Yep. So free
freight unlimited projects while it's
in beta. Hopefully I'll be
putting in the payment system
soon and I'll try and
offer some kind of discount
for if you purchase it
during the beta period. And
then it will still continue
to be free for one
project after that. Very cool.
And I, and I, one
thing I would also say
is I, I I've always
enjoyed your blog and the
knowledge that you have. I
hope that you blog more,
I think good blogs come
out of creating good software
and it'd be nice to
see some of the lessons
learned as you're, as you're,
you know, solving problems and
coming up with things, you
know, even if you are
doing this as a commercial
venture and not open sourcing
things of it, you can
still, you know, really pass
the knowledge along about some
of the stuff that you're
doing. It'll be really interesting
to see kind of the,
the diary of building octopus
deploy. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's
something I'd love to do.
I guess it's always that
trade off between, do you
spend the night writing a
blog post because I still,
it takes me a while
to write a post or
do you spend the night
just kind of building the
features and kind of put
it off and I guess
trying to find a bit
of balance, there is a
bit difficult. I think get
the work done first, but
we'll all look forward to
hearing about how it happened.
Good. Great, cool. Well, thanks
so much for chatting with
me today. Paul's development. Appreciate
it. Thanks for having me.
I hear the fade out
music. Is it music starting?
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next week.